Resume Screening System is automatically shortlisting resumes saving a lot of time and manpower.This system is used for screening and shortlisting Resumes and candidatures of individuals is built around (NLP) Natural Language Processing along with heuristic calculations to evaluate the final score of each candidate. The candidates with the highest scores can then be called for further interview rounds.
The goal of using this project is to automate the screening of applicants who do not meet the stated minimum requirements or who are unsuitable for the specific job (i.e. actual work experience  or salary expectations). 
The aim is to ensure that the candidates invited for a face-to-face interview are indeed highly qualified. 
In the hiring process, the first task for any recruiter is to screen the resumes of all the job applicants. Any company having a job opening for a particular position will have their mail inboxes bombarded with thousands of emails from the aspiring job applicants every single day. Selecting the prospective candidates for that job position from a large pool of candidates for any recruiter is very tedious. It is an extremely daunting task for the recruiters of a company to manually go through thousands of resumes and select the most appropriate candidates for the job. Out of those thousands of resumes submitted to the company for the given job posting, about 75% of them do not showcase the relevant skills that are required for the job profile. 
Due to this, the recruiters quite often find it really arduous to narrow down the most appropriate candidates from a large applicant pool.
